**T0300-BE-IDS-010** 

**NAVSEA TECHNICAL PUBLICATION** 

**Unmanned Maritime Autonomy Architecture (UMAA) Compliance Specification** 

**DISTRIBUTION STATEMENT A: Approved for public release. Distribution is unlimited.** 

**PUBLISHED BY DIRECTION OF COMMANDER, NAVAL SEA SYSTEMS COMMAND** 

**04 AUGUST 2020**   
**T0300-BE-IDS-010** 

**RECORD OF REVISIONS** 

**REVISION** 

**NO. DATE TITLE OR BRIEF DESCRIPTION/PREPARING ACTIVITY** 

0 04 AUG 2020 Initial issue. 

**RECORD OF REVISIONS-1/(RECORD OF REVISIONS-2 Blank)**   
**T0300-BE-IDS-010** 

**FOREWORD** 

This document is the authoritative source within the Unmanned Maritime Systems (UMS) Program Office (PMS 406\) under Program Executive Office Unmanned and Small Combatants (PEO USC) for defining the compliance requirements for Unmanned Maritime Autonomy Architecture (UMAA). 

This document is intended to define the requirements for compliance with the UMAA standard. The UMAA standard is not intended to prescribe an Unmanned Maritime Vehicle (UMV) system design but rather to define interfaces for common UMV capabilities where a capability is modeled in UMAA as one or more services. The UMAA standard simplifies the integration of new capabilities into a UMV system by providing a consistent set of well-defined services and associated message formats in a publish-subscribe framework. While the UMAA standard guarantees interoperability for the capabilities defined within UMAA at the message level, it does not guarantee the suitability of specific implementations of UMAA capabilities across systems. Even with compatible interfaces, it is not guaranteed that a capability used on one platform would be able to be used on another platform without changes being made. This could, for example, be due to the required precision of the data provided and consumed or due to the size, weight, and power (SWaP) requirements of the physical hardware. 

The compliance of a software system with the UMAA standard is determined by assessing its alignment to the Interface Control Documents (ICD) referenced in Appendix A. As explained in the UMAA Architecture Design Description (ADD), the scope of the UMAA standard is focused on the autonomy that resides on board the UMV, which includes the autonomy for all classes of UMVs. 

The UMAA standard consists of the following key areas: 

a. Architecture framework — defines the high-level architecture context and guidelines for 

implementing the functionality associated with UMV autonomy b. Key interfaces — identifies and explicitly defines the interfaces of common capabilities or 

functions associated with UMV autonomy c. Data model — defines the data associated with UMV autonomy key interfaces 

This UMAA Compliance Specification document will detail the requirements for software resident within a UMV to comply with the UMAA standard. 

**TMDER INSTRUCTIONS** Ships, training activities, supply points, depots, Naval Shipyards, and Supervisors of Shipbuilding are requested to arrange for the maximum practical use and evaluation of NAVSEA and NAVWAR TMs. All errors, omissions, discrepancies, and suggestions for improvement to NAVSEA and NAVWAR TMs shall be submitted as a Technical Manual Deficiency/Evaluation Report (TMDER). All feedback comments shall be thoroughly investigated and originators will be advised of action resulting therefrom. 

The NAVSEA/NAVWAR TMDER form, NAVSEA 4160/1, is included at the back of the TM. 

The following methods are available for generation and submission of TMDERs against unclassified TMs: 

For those with a Technical Data Management Information System (TDMIS) account, the most expedient and preferred method of TMDER generation and submission is via the TDMIS website at https://mercury.tdmis.navy.mil/. 

**FOREWORD-1**   
**T0300-BE-IDS-010** 

For those without a TDMIS account, generate and submit a TMDER via the Naval Systems Data Support Activity (NSDSA) website at https://mercury.tdmis.navy.mil/def\_external/pubsearch.cfm. (TDMIS accounts may be requested at the NSDSA website at https://nsdsa.dc3n.navy.mil/ by submitting a Customer Service Request \[CSR\].) 

When internet access is not available, submit TMDER via hardcopy to: 

COMMANDER NAVAL SURFACE WARFARE CENTER NAVAL SYSTEMS DATA SUPPORT ACTIVITY 4363 MISSILE WAY ATTN: CODE 310 BLDG 1389 TMDERS PORT HUENEME, CA 93043-4307 

Additional copies of the TMDER form may also be downloaded from the NSDSA website at https://nsdsa.dc3n.navy.mil/ by clicking on the blue tab labeled “Reference Docs/Forms”. 

TMDERs against classified/restricted TMs (includes all NOFORN) must be submitted using the hardcopy method cited above. 

Urgent priority TM deficiencies shall be reported by naval message with transmission to Port Hueneme Division, Naval Surface Warfare Center (Code 310), Port Hueneme, CA. Local message handling procedures shall be used. The message shall identify each TM deficiency by Technical Manual Identification Number (TMIN) and title. This method shall be used in those instances where a TM deficiency constitutes an urgent problem (i.e., involves a condition, which if not corrected, could result in injury to personnel, damage to the equipment, or jeopardy to the safety or success of the mission). 

Complete instructions for TMDER generation and submission are detailed on the NSDSA website at https://nsdsa.dc3n.navy.mil/ by clicking on the blue tab labeled “TMDER/ACN” and then clicking on the gray button labeled “TMDERs”. 

**FOREWORD-2**   
**T0300-BE-IDS-010** 

**TABLE OF CONTENTS** 

**Chapter/Paragraph Page** 

Chapter 1 Compliance Requirements ........................................................................................................ 1-1 1-1 Service Requirements................................................................................................................... 1-1 1-2 Component/System Requirements. .............................................................................................. 1-1 1-3 Service Performance and Dependency Documentation Requirements. ....................................... 1-1 1-4 DDS Requirements....................................................................................................................... 1-2 1-4.1 DDS Implementation Options. ........................................................................................... 1-2 1-4.2 UMAA IDL For Compilation. ............................................................................................ 1-2 Chapter 2 Related Topics ........................................................................................................................... 2-1 2-1 Cybersecurity. .............................................................................................................................. 2-1 2-2 System Safety. .............................................................................................................................. 2-1 Chapter 3 Non-UMAA Services ................................................................................................................ 3-1 3-1 General Information. .................................................................................................................... 3-1 Chapter 4 Summary ................................................................................................................................... 4-1 4-1 Summary. ..................................................................................................................................... 4-1 Appendix A Applicable References .......................................................................................................... A-1 A-1 Introduction. ............................................................................................................................... A-1 A-2 UMAA Architecture Design Description (ADD). ..................................................................... A-1 A-3 UMAA Interface Control Documents. ....................................................................................... A-1 A-3.1 Engineering Operations ICD. ........................................................................................... A-1 A-3.2 Maneuver Operations ICD. ............................................................................................... A-1 A-3.3 Situational Awareness ICD. .............................................................................................. A-1 A-3.4 Support Operations ICD. .................................................................................................. A-1 A-3.5 Sensor and Effector Management ICD. ............................................................................ A-1 A-3.6 Processing Operations ICD. .............................................................................................. A-1 A-3.7 Communications Operations ICD. .................................................................................... A-2 A-3.8 Mission Management ICD. ............................................................................................... A-2 A-4 Object Management Group Data Distribution Service. ............................................................. A-2 A-4.1 Data Distribution Service Specification. .......................................................................... A-2 A-4.2 DDS Security Specification. ............................................................................................. A-2 Appendix B Acronyms, Abbreviations, and Definitions .......................................................................... B-1 B-1 Acronyms and Abbreviations. .................................................................................................... B-1 B-2 Definitions. ................................................................................................................................. B-2 

**i/(ii Blank)**   
**T0300-BE-IDS-010** 

**CHAPTER 1 COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENTS** 

**1-1 SERVICE REQUIREMENTS.** 

Compliance with the UMAA standard shall be evaluated individually per Service Participants and determined using the following criteria: 

a. Service Provider: 

(1) Shall implement all interface messages as defined by the UMAA Service under evaluation. (2) Shall not use non-UMAA interfaces that provide capabilities that are duplicative of UMAA Service capabilities in any amount, unless the non-UMAA interfaces are used solely for the purpose of exposing the interface as a UMAA Service (or set of UMAA Services) to the rest of the system. (3) Shall provide full functionality of the Service without the requirement for any non-UMAA interfaces, unless the non-UMAA interfaces are used solely for the purpose of exposing the interface as a UMAA Service (or set of UMAA Services) to the rest of the system. (4) May consume other UMAA Services to enable its own Service functionality. b. Service Consumer: 

(1) May use a subset of the complete Service message set. (2) Shall not use non-UMAA interfaces that are duplicative in any amount of any UMAA Service 

message set. c. Service Participant: 

(1) Shall be implemented appropriately as specified by the definitions of their respective Service 

messages and attributes. (2) Shall implement the interface flow control as defined in the UMAA ICDs. 

In order to maximize compatibility and alignment across Services that comply with the UMAA standard, partial compliance to the standard shall not be granted for an individual Service Participant. An individual Service Participant shall be considered either fully compliant with the UMAA standard or non-compliant if it fails to meet even one required criterion specified above. 

Sample uses cases are provided on the Defense Intelligence and Information Enterprise (DI2E) UMAAPUBLIC website to help illustrate these compliance requirements. These samples are available at the following link: https://confluence.di2e.net/display/UMAAPUBLIC/Compliance+Use+Cases. 

**1-2 COMPONENT/SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS.** 

A Component shall be considered UMAA-compliant only if all UMAA Service Participants in the Component are compliant. The aggregation of all Components that comprise a system only needs to incorporate Services that are needed to meet its mission requirements. The system is not required to include all Services included in UMAA ICDs, but any Service included in a system whose message set and functionality are specified by UMAA ICDs shall comply with the UMAA ICD as specified in paragraph 1-2. 

**1-3 SERVICE PERFORMANCE AND DEPENDENCY DOCUMENTATION REQUIREMENTS.** 

In order to be compliant with the UMAA standard, all Service Participants shall be accompanied by a performance and dependency document that details the critical Service Participant assumptions, required 

**1-1**   
**T0300-BE-IDS-010** 

interfaces, and any dependencies to other Services (both UMAA and non-UMAA) in order for the Service Participant to function as designed. 

The performance and dependency document shall provide the following: 

a. Data generation and message updates. Documentation that details the data generation and message update timing is required. This information is necessary for a systems engineer to understand how well a Service Participant can meet timing requirements imposed by other Service Participants when evaluating a system design. b. Accuracy, quality, and expected error tolerance of data provided. Documentation that details the expected error tolerance and precision of data either provided or consumed by the Service Participant is required. This includes but is not limited to any requirements for a specific level of data precision for Service Participants that are consuming data and any error specifications along with factors that may influence the magnitude of this error for data that is produced by a Service Participant. This information is necessary for a systems engineer to understand how well a Service Participant can meet quality requirements imposed by other Service Participants when evaluating a system design. c. Data Distribution Service (DDS) Quality of Service (QoS) requirements. Documentation that details the specific QoS requirements that exist for a Service Participant to function correctly is required. This information is necessary for a systems engineer to understand valid QoS settings for a Service Participant when evaluating a system design. d. Handling of optional and union fields. Documentation that details how optional fields and unions are handled in accordance with ICDs is required. This information is necessary for a systems engineer to understand how well a Service Participant can meet optional data requirements imposed by other Service Participants when evaluating a system design. e. DDS Security configuration. Documentation that details the specific DDS Security configuration that is required. This information is necessary for a systems engineer to evaluate security requirements of a Service Participant when evaluating a system design. 

**1-4 DDS REQUIREMENTS.** 

In order to maintain a common underlying transport layer within a UMAA-compliant Unmanned Maritime Vehicle (UMV), the Object Management Group (OMG) DDS standard shall be used for all communication between Service Participants unless otherwise specified by the Service definition. 

1-4.1 DDS IMPLEMENTATION OPTIONS. Although the UMAA standard does not require a specific DDS implementation, it includes Interface Definition Language (IDL) files that have been tested with both the Real-Time Innovations (RTI) Connext DDS and the Fast Real Time Publish-Subscribe (Fast RTPS) DDS. If an alternative DDS implementation is used, it may require changes to the provided IDL since each DDS implementation may use non-standard syntax. In this case, the modified IDL shall generate Service Participant interfaces that are compatible with the Service Participant interfaces generated using the UMAA-provided IDL with either RTI Connext DDS or Fast RTPS DDS. 

1-4.2 UMAA IDL FOR COMPILATION. A compliant Service Participant shall be fully compatible with the IDLs provided by the UMAA standard for the corresponding Service being implemented. 

a. Non-optional fields. All required fields within a Service message shall be populated with a value 

in accordance with the requirements specified in the corresponding ICD. b. Optional fields. 

**1-2**   
**T0300-BE-IDS-010** 

(1) Any optional field shall be included in the published message if that field is available in the system. It is only optional in the sense that the UMAA standard can be applied to many different implementations, some of which will have that field and some of which will not. (2) In the case of command messages, if an optional field is supported by the Service Provider but not provided by the commanding Service Consumer, the Service Provider shall reject the command. (3) If an optional field is not supported by the Service Provider but is provided by the commanding 

Service Consumer, the Service Provider shall reject the command. c. Unions. In the case of unions in a command, a Service Provider shall implement one or more 

options to be compliant. 

Exceptions shall only be granted if explicitly described in the corresponding ICD service definitions. 

**1-3/(1-4 Blank)**   
**T0300-BE-IDS-010** 

**CHAPTER 2 RELATED TOPICS** 

**2-1 CYBERSECURITY.** 

The UMAA standard addressed in the ICDs is independent from defining specific measures to achieve cybersecurity compliance. Compliance with the UMAA ICDs does not preclude the incorporation of security measures, nor does it imply or guarantee any level of cybersecurity within a system. Cybersecurity compliance is outside the scope of the UMAA standard and shall be performed on a program-specific basis. 

**2-2 SYSTEM SAFETY.** 

The UMAA standard does not directly address system safety. The UMAA standard focuses on consistent messaging through standards defined in the ICDs. Any system-safety-related issues shall be addressed as part of a specific program’s system design and implementation and will vary greatly between implementations of the UMAA standard. 

**2-1/(2-2 Blank)**   
**T0300-BE-IDS-010** 

**CHAPTER 3 NON-UMAA SERVICES** 

**3-1 GENERAL INFORMATION.** 

While the UMAA standard strives to cover all core capabilities associated with a UMV, there will be scenarios where a system requires a capability that is not covered under a currently defined UMAA ICD. It is anticipated that the ICD document set will evolve over time in order to incorporate modifications to existing Services as well as to introduce new Services to cover existing gaps. If a new Service is submitted to the UMAA Board (UMAAB) for inclusion into the UMAA standard, it shall be reviewed in accordance with the UMAAB governance process. If accepted, the UMAA standard shall be updated to support the new Service. If denied, the proposed Service shall remain a non-UMAA Service. 

**3-1/(3-2 Blank)**   
**T0300-BE-IDS-010** 

**CHAPTER 4 SUMMARY** 

**4-1 SUMMARY.** 

The UMAA standard provides a consistent set of ICD message definitions between Service Participants within a UMV with the primary goal of streamlining Component integration. Clearly, message structure alone cannot allow for seamless interoperability, which is why additional documentation specific to each Service Participant is critical. Requirements around data quality, frequency, and accuracy shall be taken into consideration when compliant Service Participants are to be combined. Additionally, since the scope of the UMAA standard will not cover all possible Services required within a UMV, the UMAA standard allows non-UMAA Services within the system as long as they meet the requirements specified in this document. Adherence to this compliance specification document will facilitate rapid and streamlined integration of new Components into a UMV system. 

**4-1/(4-2 Blank)**   
**T0300-BE-IDS-010** 

**APPENDIX A APPLICABLE REFERENCES** 

**A-1 INTRODUCTION.** 

This appendix provides a brief description of the documents that make up the UMAA standard. Individual programs that are required to implement the UMAA standard will specify their required documents and associated revision numbers and dates for the documents listed in this appendix. The associated documents described below can be accessed online in their current and prior versions at the indicated links. 

**A-2 UMAA ARCHITECTURE DESIGN DESCRIPTION (ADD).** 

The UMAA ADD provides a high-level overview of UMAA, including its background, origins, and applicability. It covers the architectural guidelines and future path of the architecture definition. This document is available online at https://confluence.di2e.net/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=305464016. 

**A-3 UMAA INTERFACE CONTROL DOCUMENTS.** 

The UMAA ICDs detail the message formats, method names, and data types with which services must align in order to comply with the UMAA standard. The ICDs listed below are available online at https://confluence.di2e.net/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=305464155. 

A-3.1 ENGINEERING OPERATIONS ICD. The Engineering Operations ICD focuses primarily on services related to the Hull, Mechanical and Electrical (HM\&E) systems of the vehicle. This ICD includes low-level control and status of individual components on the vehicle such as the propulsor, battery, engine, gong, and rudder. It includes physical constraints and specifications of the system and its components. This ICD also includes fault handling and health of the vehicle. 

A-3.2 MANEUVER OPERATIONS ICD. The Maneuver Operations ICD focuses on services that provide control of the vehicle for driving. This includes low-level controls, such as heading and speed, as well as higher-level behaviors for loitering or traversing waypoints. This ICD also includes managing driving constraints such as setting bounds on desired speed range or setting a desired maximum turn rate. 

A-3.3 SITUATIONAL AWARENESS ICD. The Situational Awareness ICD focuses on services providing decision-level information, which includes self (ownship) state information (such as navigation data and self-health); environmental information (both a priori and sensed) such as map or chart data, bathymetry, currents, and weather; and world model data including contact information and classification information (from single or multiple data-fused sources). 

A-3.4 SUPPORT OPERATIONS ICD. The Support Operations ICD focuses on services used across functional boundaries of the UMAA ICDs such as logging, supporting startup and shutdown, providing emissions control (EMCON) services, and resource control. 

A-3.5 SENSOR AND EFFECTOR MANAGEMENT ICD. The Sensor and Effector Management ICD focuses on sensor and effector services that are often referred to as payloads but can also be organic to the vehicle. Examples include radars, sonars, manipulators, payload deployments, kinetic effects, and electronic warfare effects. 

A-3.6 PROCESSING OPERATIONS ICD. The Processing Operations ICD focuses on processing software services that refine data received from sensing systems into higher-level information constructs. Examples include sonar beam forming, image processing algorithms, wake detection algorithms, and other algorithmic type processing. 

**A-1**   
**T0300-BE-IDS-010** 

A-3.7 COMMUNICATIONS OPERATIONS ICD. The Communications Operations ICD focuses on managing the radios, communications channels, data flow, and message transport between the vehicle and off-board entities such as operations centers, other manned platforms, or other collaborating unmanned vehicles. 

A-3.8 MISSION MANAGEMENT ICD. The Mission Management ICD focuses on services that support performing the overall mission and managing the vehicle in its operating environment. These services would support mission planning, re-planning, and execution as well as managing collaboration with other unmanned and manned vehicles, assessing mission performance, and providing overall control and decision-making for the mission. 

**A-4 OBJECT MANAGEMENT GROUP DATA DISTRIBUTION SERVICE.** 

A-4.1 DATA DISTRIBUTION SERVICE SPECIFICATION. DDS is the required middleware for UMAA compliance as specified in the OMG Data Distribution Service Specification. This document is available online at http://www.omg.org/spec/DDS/1.4. 

A-4.2 DDS SECURITY SPECIFICATION. If a program has any cybersecurity communications requirements, then in order to be UMAA-compliant it shall comply with the OMG DDS Security Specification. This document is available online at https://www.omg.org/spec/DDS-SECURITY/1.1. DDS Security products shall feature authentication, encryption, and non-repudiation protections to ensure confidentiality and integrity of data and communications. 

**A-2**   
**T0300-BE-IDS-010** 

**APPENDIX B ACRONYMS, ABBREVIATIONS, AND DEFINITIONS** 

**B-1 ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS.** 

**ACRONYM TITLE** 

ADD Architecture Design Description DDS Data Distribution Service EMCON Emissions Control Fast RTPS Fast Real Time Publish-Subscribe HM\&E Hull, Mechanical and Electrical ICD Interface Control Document IDL Interface Definition Language OMG Object Management Group PEO USC Program Executive Office Unmanned and Small Combatants PMS 406 Program Manager Ships 406 Unmanned Maritime Systems Program Office QoS Quality of Service RTI Real-Time Innovations SWaP Size, Weight, and Power UMAA Unmanned Maritime Autonomy Architecture UMAAB Unmanned Maritime Autonomy Architecture Board UMS Unmanned Maritime Systems UMV Unmanned Maritime Vehicle 

**B-1**   
**T0300-BE-IDS-010** 

**B-2 DEFINITIONS.** 

**TERM DEFINITION** 

Service A resource that enables access to one or more capabilities where a 

capability is the ability to provide data or effect change within a system. A Service is defined by its message set and functionality as specified by Unmanned Maritime Autonomy Architecture (UMAA) Interface Control Documents (ICD). Service Provider A realization (or implementation) of a Service. Service Consumer Any software that utilizes a Service Provider either to obtain data or to 

effect change within a system. Service Participant A Service Provider or Service Consumer. Component A deployable software unit that is not further decomposed into 

separately managed units. It may consist of one or more Service Providers and/or Service Consumers. A Component may be implemented as a single process running on a single processor or as multiple processes running over multiple, possibly networked, processors. 

**B-2**   
Ref: NAVSEAINST 4160.3 NAVSEA S0005-AA-PRO-010/TMMP **NAVSEA/SPAWAR TECHNICAL MANUAL DEFICIENCY/EVALUATION REPORT (TMDER)** 

**INSTRUCTIONS**: Continue on 8 1⁄2” x 11” page if additional space is needed. 1\. Use this report to indicate deficiencies, problems and recommendations relating to publications. 2\. For **NOFORN** TMDERs mailing requirements, see OPNAVINST N9210.3. 3\. For **CLASSIFIED** TMDERs mailing requirements, see SECNAV M-5510.36. 4\. For TMDERs that affect more than one publication, submit a separate TMDER for each. 5\. Submit TMDERs at web site https://nsdsa.dc3n.navy.mil or mail to: **COMMANDING OFFICER, CODE 310 TMDERs, NAVSURFWARCENDIV NSDSA, 4363 MISSILE WAY BLDG 1389, PORT HUENEME CA 93043-4307**   
CLASSIFICATION 

1\. PUBLICATION NUMBER 2\. VOL/PART 3\. REV/DATE OR CHG/DATE 4\. SYSTEM/EQUIPMENT ID 

5\. TITLE OF PUBLICATION 6\. REPORT CONTROL NUMBER 

(6 digit UIC-YY-any four: xxxxxx-10-xxxx) 

7\. RECOMMEND CHANGES TO PUBLICATION 

7a. Page \# 7b. Para \# 7c. RECOMMENDED CHANGES AND REASONS 

8\. ORIGINATOR’S NAME AND WORK CENTER 9\. DATE 10\. ORIGINATOR’S E-MAIL ADDRESS 11\. TMMA of Manual (NSDSA will complete) 

12\. SHIP OR ACTIVITY Name and Address (Include UIC/CAGE/HULL) 13\. Phone Numbers: 

Commercial ( ) \- DSN \- FAX ( ) \- 

NAVSEA 4160/1 (Rev. 5-2017) 

FOLD HERE AND TAPE SECURELY PLEASE DO NOT STAPLE 

INCLUDE COMPLETE ADDRESS 

USE PROPER POSTAGE 

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 

**COMMANDING OFFICER CODE 310 TMDERs NAVSURFWARCENDIV NSDSA 4363 MISSILE WAY BLDG 1389 PORT HUENEME CA 93043-4307** 

FOLD HERE AND TAPE SECURELY PLEASE DO NOT STAPLE 

**T0300-BE-IDS-010** 